Jeremy Elson, 31 March 1999


Usage: tcpflow  [-b max_bytes] [-c] [-d debug_level] [-f max_fds]
		[-i iface] [-p] [-s] [-v] [expression]

-b max_bytes: Max bytes per flow.  Capture no more than max_bytes
bytes per flow.  Any data captured for a flow beyond max_bytes from
the first byte captured will be ignored.  The default is to store an
unlimited number of bytes per flow.

-c: Console print.  Print the contents of packets to stdout as they
are received, without storing any captured data to files (implies -s).

-d debug_level: Debug level.  Set the level of debugging messages
printed to stderr to debug_level.  Higher numbers produce more
messages.  -d 0 causes completely silent operation.  -d 1, the
default, produces minimal status messages.  -d 10 produces verbose
output equivalent to -v.  Numbers higher than 10 can produce a large
amount of debugging information useful only to developers.

-f max_fds: Max FDs used.  Limit the maximum number of file descriptors
used by tcpflow to max_fds.  Higher numbers use more system resources
but usually perform better.  If the underlying OS supports the
setrlimit() system call, this OS will be asked to enforce this limit.
The default is for tcpflow to use the maximum number of file
descriptors allowed by the OS.

-i iface: Interface name.  Capture packets from the network interface
named 'iface'.  If no interface is specified with -i, a reasonable
default will be used by the BPF packet capture library automatically.

-p: Promiscuous mode.  Ask the BPF packet capture library to put the
network interface into promiscuous mode before capturing packets.  The
default is to NOT put the interface into promiscuous mode, but it
might already be in promiscuous mode for some other reason.

-s: Strip non-printables.  Convert all non-printable characters to the
"." character before printing packets to the console or storing them
to a file.

-v: Verbose operation.  Verbosely describe tcpflow's operation.
Equivalent to -d 10.
